docs: basic hooks (#8)
pushdev-code/react-tutorial: 9-basic-hooks/index.md

# Basic Hooks

> 
> Hooks are a new addition in React 16.8. Hooks are a new API that allows us to have state, and other React features, in `Functional Components`.
> 
> - You can still use classes, but hooks are recommended.
> - Complex components become hard to understand with Classes.
> - Hooks let you split one component into smaller functions based on what pieces are related.
> - You have to understand how this works in JavaScript.
> - You have to remember to bind the event handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Hooks are a new addition to React 16.8. Hooks are a new API that allows us to have state, and other React features, in `Functional Components`.

- You can still use classes, but hooks are recommended.
- Complex components become hard to understand with Classes.
- Hooks let you split one component into smaller functions based on what pieces are related.
- You have to understand how this works in JavaScript.
- You have to remember to bind the event handlers.
```

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Took <a href="https://twitter.com/dan_abramov?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@dan_abramov</a>&#39;s code from <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ReactConf2018?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ReactConf2018</a> and visualised it so you could see the benefits that React Hooks bring us. <a href="https://t.co/dKyOQsG0Gd">pic.twitter.com/dKyOQsG0Gd</a></p>&mdash; Pavel (@prchdk) <a href="https://twitter.com/prchdk/status/1056960391543062528?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 29, 2018</a></blockquote>

## Hooks rules

- Only call Hooks at the top level. 
- Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.
- Only call Hooks from React function components.
- You can create custom hooks.

## Hooks Flow

This flowchart explains the lifecycle of a Hooks component.

![Hook Flow](../public/hook-flow.png)

## State Hook

> The React `useState` Hook allows to track state in a function component. `State` generally refers to data or properites that need to be tracking through the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React `useState` Hook allows to track state in a function component. `State` generally refers to data or properties that need to be tracked through the application.
```

    // the current state and a function that updates it. We are using array destructuring.
    // The only argument to useState is the initial state.
    const [count, setCount] = React.useState(0);
    return <p>{count}</p>
  }
```

You can use multiple `useState` Hooks in the same component. Let's take a look at the example below.

```js
   function Form() {
    const [values, setValues] = React.useState({
      name: '',
      age: null
    });

    function handleOnChange(event) {
      const { target: { value, name } } = event;
      setValues({
        ...values,
        [name]: value
      });
    }

    function handleOnSubmit(event) {
      event.preventDefault();
      console.log('>>> Values', values);
    }

    const element = (
      <form onSubmit={handleOnSubmit}>
        <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
        <input id="name" name="name" type="string" onChange={handleOnChange}/>
        <label htmlFor="age">Age</label>
        <input id="age" name="age" type="number" onChange={handleOnChange}/>
        <button type="submit">
          Submit
        </button>
      </form>
    );

    return element;
  }
```

> - We highly recommend to visit the[ Frequently asked questions](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html)
> 
> ## Effect Hook
> 
> The `useEffect` Hook allows to perform side effects in your components.
> 
> Common use cases:
> - Fetch data.
> - Directly update the DOM.
> - Timers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We highly recommend visiting the[ Frequently asked questions](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html)

## Effect Hook

The `useEffect` Hook allows performing side effects in your components.

Common use cases:
- Fetch data.
- Directly update the DOM.
- Timers.
```

      <p>{name}</p> 
    </div>
  );
}

function App () {
  const [pokemons, setPokemons] = React.useState([]);
  React.useEffect(async () => {
    await fetchPokemons();
    console.log('>>> Pokemons fetched');
  }, []);

  async function fetchPokemonData({ url }) {
    try {
      const response = await fetch(url);
      const data = await response.json();
      return data;
    } catch (error) {
      setPokemons([]);
    }
  }
  
  async function fetchPokemons() {
    // Changing the state
    try {
      const response = await fetch(POKEMON_ENDPOINT);
      const data = await response.json();
      const pokemonsDetailed = [];
      for (const pokemon of data.results) {
        const pokemonData = await fetchPokemonData(pokemon);
        pokemonsDetailed.push(pokemonData);
      }
      setPokemons(pokemonsDetailed);
    } catch (error) {
      setPokemons([]);
    }
  };

  const element = pokemons.length === 0 ? <p> Loading... </p> : pokemons.map(pokemon => <PokemonCard key={pokemon.id} {...pokemon}/>)

  return (
    <div>
      {element}      
    </div>
  );
}
```

## useRef Hook

> The `useRef` hook allows to create a reference to the DOM element. It can be used to access a DOM element directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useRef` hook allows creating a reference to the DOM element. It can be used to access a DOM element directly.
```
